{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2580
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww37900\viewh17980\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
12 Rules for interconversion and portability of data.\
Think of Future You and Future Us; you are unlikely to individually complete a publishable or final project within your time in a group.\
\
1. TidyData has 1 variable per column,  1 observation per row\
\
2. Every data(frame) column needs a variable label, with units.\
	Alternative: use short column names, with a separate Data Dictionary table giving units and verbose variable definitions\
	Ex. a column name of 'chl' is acceptable ONLY if a separate Data Dictionary table gives chl: ug chl mL-1\
	etc.\
	Convention Example: CampbellCaseLabels_units for data column variable labels, and for text data entries. \
\
3. Avoid special characters (`~@#$%^&*()-_=+[\{]\}\\|;:'",<.>/?) and leading numerals in variable names (Variable1 is OK; 1Variable is not).\
\
4. VariableName_units should be Consistent, Comprehensible and Concise.\
	\
5. One value in a given data frame cell:\'a0\
	-unit label;\
	-numeric data;\
	-equation or formula with references to other cells (in spreadsheets; not applicable to R)\
	-comment or text\
\
6. One class of data in a dataframe column (all numbers, all characters, all dates, all logical, etc.) \
\
7. Do not use formatting or location to imply information; be explicit.\
	
\f1\b Never
\f0\b0  merge cells in spreadsheets. \'a0It makes editing and auditing difficult/impossible.\
	Keep references within a row or a column; limit 'diagonal' references.\
	 Avoid colours to highlight cells in spreadsheets. \'a0It makes a mess when editing.\
\
8. Do not bury data or constants within equations; put data or constants in their own cell, then refer to the cell from the equation in another cell (in spreadsheets, not applicable to R),\
	In R consider source(Constants) to load set of resusable constants into memory, consistently across projects.\
\
9. (Almost) Never re-type or re-paste data or images. \'a0Use a reference to the original data cell, a script to pull data from a source or a script to put the image where needed. That way the data is auto-updating and easier to audit.\
\
10. \'a0Use  functions. \'a0Do not manually calculate averages or elapsed time etc. \'a0It is impossible to audit or update.\
\
11. Avoid unnecessary propagation of data workbooks and folders; one per project is often enough if you plan the layout.\
	The project folder should contain an .Rproj.\
\
12. Within a project folder use relative paths to navigate among folders; that way the folder is transportable to other locations or users.\
\
The tidyverse:\
http://r4ds.had.co.nz/\
\
Tidyverse coding style guide:\
https://style.tidyverse.org/\
\
Data organization in spreadsheets:\
https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/00031305.2017.1375989\
\
Open Data Repository Practices:\
https://datadryad.org/pages/reusabilityBestPractices}